.TH "ROWS" "1" "2020-12-16" "-0.4.2-dev-eaa8b1ac-" "rows Manual"
.SH NAME
rows \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rows
[OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-http\-cache\fP BOOLEAN
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-http\-cache\-path\fP TEXT
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Show the version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
\fBconvert\fP
  Convert table on `source` URI to...
  See \fBrows-convert(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBconvert\fP command.
.PP
\fBjoin\fP
  Join tables from `source` URIs using `key(s)`...
  See \fBrows-join(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBjoin\fP command.
.PP
\fBsum\fP
  Sum tables from `source` URIs and save into...
  See \fBrows-sum(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBsum\fP command.
.PP
\fBprint\fP
  Print a table
  See \fBrows-print(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBprint\fP command.
.PP
\fBquery\fP
  Query a table using SQL
  See \fBrows-query(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBquery\fP command.
.PP
\fBschema\fP
  Identifies table schema
  See \fBrows-schema(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBschema\fP command.
.PP
\fBcsv-to-sqlite\fP
  Convert one or more CSV files to SQLite
  See \fBrows-csv-to-sqlite(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBcsv-to-sqlite\fP command.
.PP
\fBsqlite-to-csv\fP
  Convert a SQLite table into CSV
  See \fBrows-sqlite-to-csv(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBsqlite-to-csv\fP command.
.PP
\fBpgimport\fP
  Import a CSV file into a PostgreSQL table
  See \fBrows-pgimport(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBpgimport\fP command.
.PP
\fBpgexport\fP
  Export a PostgreSQL table into a CSV file
  See \fBrows-pgexport(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBpgexport\fP command.
.PP
\fBpdf-to-text\fP
  Extract text from a PDF
  See \fBrows-pdf-to-text(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBpdf-to-text\fP command.
.PP
\fBcsv-merge\fP
  Lazily merge CSVs (even if the schemas...
  See \fBrows-csv-merge(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBcsv-merge\fP command.
.PP
\fBcsv-clean\fP
  Create a consistent and clean version of a...
  See \fBrows-csv-clean(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBcsv-clean\fP command.
.PP
\fBcsv-row-count\fP
  Lazily count CSV rows
  See \fBrows-csv-row-count(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBcsv-row-count\fP command.
.PP
\fBcsv-split\fP
  Split CSV into equal parts (by number of...
  See \fBrows-csv-split(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBcsv-split\fP command.
.PP
\fBlist-sheets\fP
  List sheets
  See \fBrows-list-sheets(1)\fP for full documentation on the \fBlist-sheets\fP command.
